as long ago as 1860 it was the proper thing to be born at home at present
so I am told the high gods of medicine have decreed that the first cries of
the young shall be uttered upon the anaesthetic air of a hospital preferably
a fashionable one so young Mr. and Mrs. Roger Button were fifty years
ahead of style when they decided one day in the summer of 1860, that their
first baby should be born in a hospital whether this anachronism had any
bearing upon the astonishing history I am about to set down will never be
known
I shall tell you what occurred and let you judge for yourself
the Roger Buttons held an enviable position both social and financial in
ante bellum Baltimore they were related to the this family and the that
family which as every southerner knew entitled them to membership in
that enormous peerage which largely populated the confederacy this was
their first experience with the charming old custom of having babies Mr.
Button was naturally nervous he hoped it would be a boy so that he could
be sent to yale college in connecticut at which institution Mr. Button
himself had been known for four years by the somewhat obvious nickname
of cuff
On the september morning consecrated to the enormous event he arose
nervously at six o'clock dressed himself adjusted an impeccable stock and
hurried forth through the streets of Baltimore to the hospital to determine
whether the darkness of the night had borne in new life upon its bosom
when he was approximately a hundred yards from the maryland private
hospital for ladies and gentlemen he saw doctor keene the family
physician descending the front steps rubbing his hands together with a
washing movement as all doctors are required to do by the unwritten
ethics of their profession
Mr. Roger Button the president of Roger Button & co wholesale
hardware began to run toward doctor keene with much less dignity than

was expected from a southern gentleman of that picturesque period
doctor keene he called oh doctor keene
the doctor heard him faced around and stood waiting a curious
expression settling on his harsh medicinal face as Mr. Button drew near
what happened demanded Mr. Button as he came up in a gasping rush
what was it how is she a boy who is it what
talk sense said doctor keene sharply he appeared somewhat irritated
is the child born begged Mr. Button
doctor keene frowned why yes I suppose so after a fashion again he
threw a curious glance at Mr. Button
is my wife all right
yes
is it a boy or a girl
here now cried doctor keene in a perfect passion of irritation
i'll ask you to go and see for yourself outrageous he snapped the
last word out in almost one syllable then he turned away muttering
do you imagine a case like this will help my professional reputation
one more would ruin me ruin anybody
what's the matter demanded Mr. Button appalled triplets
no not triplets answered the doctor cuttingly what's more you can go
and see for yourself and get another doctor I brought you into the world
young man and i've been physician to your family for forty years but i'm
through with you I don't want to see you or any of your relatives ever again
Good bye
then he turned sharply and without another word climbed into his phaeton
which was waiting at the curbstone and drove severely away
Mr. Button stood there upon the sidewalk stupefied and trembling from
head to foot what horrible mishap had occurred he had suddenly lost all
desire to go into the maryland private hospital for ladies and gentlemen it

was with the greatest difficulty that a moment later he forced himself to
mount the steps and enter the front door
a nurse was sitting behind a desk in the opaque gloom of the hall
swallowing his shame Mr. Button approached her
good morning she remarked looking up at him pleasantly
good morning I I am Mr. Button
at this a look of utter terror spread itself over girl's face she rose to her feet
and seemed about to fly from the hall restraining herself only with the most
apparent difficulty
I want to see my child said Mr. Button
the nurse gave a little scream oh of course she cried hysterically
upstairs right upstairs go up
she pointed the direction and Mr. Button bathed in cool perspiration
turned falteringly and began to mount to the second floor in the upper hall
he addressed another nurse who approached him basin in hand i'm Mr.
Button he managed to articulate I want to see my
clank the basin clattered to the floor and rolled in the direction of the
stairs clank clank it began a methodical descent as if sharing in the general
terror which this gentleman provoked
I want to see my child Mr. Button almost shrieked he was on the verge
of collapse
clank the basin reached the first floor the nurse regained control of
herself and threw Mr. Button a look of hearty contempt
all right Mr. Button she agreed in a hushed voice very well but if
you knew what a state it's put us all in this morning it's perfectly
outrageous the hospital will never have a ghost of a reputation after
hurry he cried hoarsely I can't stand this
come this way then Mr. Button

he dragged himself after her at the end of a long hall they reached a room
from which proceeded a variety of howls indeed a room which in later
parlance would have been known as the crying room they entered
well gasped Mr. Button which is mine
there said the nurse
Mr. Button's eyes followed her pointing finger and this is what he saw
Wrapped in a voluminous white blanket and partly crammed into one of the
cribs there sat an old man apparently about seventy years of age his sparse
hair was almost white and from his chin dripped a long smoke coloured
beard which waved absurdly back and forth fanned by the breeze coming
in at the window he looked up at Mr. Button with dim faded eyes in which
lurked a puzzled question
am I mad thundered Mr. Button his terror resolving into rage is this
some ghastly hospital joke
it doesn't seem like a joke to us replied the nurse severely and I don't
know whether you're mad or not but that is most certainly your child
the cool perspiration redoubled on Mr. Button's forehead he closed his
eyes and then opening them looked again there was no mistake he was
gazing at a man of threescore and ten a baby of threescore and ten a
baby whose feet hung over the sides of the crib in which it was reposing
the old man looked placidly from one to the other for a moment and then
suddenly spoke in a cracked and ancient voice are you my father he
demanded
Mr. Button and the nurse started violently
because if you are went on the old man querulously I wish you'd get me
out of this place or at least get them to put a comfortable rocker in
here
where in god's name did you come from who are you burst out Mr.
Button frantically

I can't tell you exactly who I am replied the querulous whine because
i've only been born a few hours but my last name is certainly Button
you lie you're an impostor
the old man turned wearily to the nurse nice way to welcome a newborn
child he complained in a weak voice tell him he's wrong why don't you
you're wrong Mr. Button said the nurse severely this is your child and
you'll have to make the best of it we're going to ask you to take him home
with you as soon as possible some time today
home repeated Mr. Button incredulously
yes we can't have him here we really can't you know
i'm right glad of it whined the old man this is a fine place to keep a
youngster of quiet tastes with all this yelling and howling I haven't been
able to get a wink of sleep I asked for something to eat here his voice
rose to a shrill note of protest and they brought me a bottle of milk
Mr. Button sank down upon a chair near his son and concealed his face in
his hands my heavens he murmured in an ecstasy of horror what will
people say What must I do
you'll have to take him home insisted the nurse immediately
a grotesque picture formed itself with dreadful clarity before the eyes of
the tortured man a picture of himself walking through the crowded
streets of the city with this appalling apparition stalking by his side
I can't I can't he moaned
people would stop to speak to him and what was he going to say he would
have to introduce this this septuagenarian this is my son born early this
morning and then the old man would gather his blanket around him and
they would plod on past the bustling stores the slave market for a dark
instant Mr. Button wished passionately that his son was back past the
luxurious houses of the residential district past the home for the aged
come pull yourself together commanded the nurse

see here the old man announced suddenly if you think i'm going to walk
home in this blanket you're entirely mistaken
babies always have blankets
with a malicious crackle the old man held up a small white swaddling
garment look he quavered this is what they had ready for me
babies always wear those said the nurse primly
well said the old man this baby's not going to wear anything in about
two minutes this blanket itches yhey might at least have given me a
sheet
keep it on keep it on said Mr. Button hurriedly he turned to the nurse
what'll I do
go down town and buy your son some clothes
Mr. Button's son's voice followed him down into the hall and a cane
father I want to have a cane
Mr. Button banged the outer door savagely
